.\"
.\"     This is free software and only distributed under the
.\"     terms of the Gnu Public License. Author: Pieter Brandwijk
.\"
.TH chronorder 1 "February 2013" "File utilities"  \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
chronorder \- rename the files in a directory so that the alphabetical order matches the chronological order
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chronorder
[\-d path] [\-e string] [\-\-start\-index int] [\-\-prefix string] [\-\-no\-safety]
.br
.B chronorder
[\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chronorder
is a command that opperates on files in a directory that renames files so that the alphabetical order matches the chronological order. 
.PP
The default behavior of the command is to prepend "1 " to the name of the oldest file, "2 " to the second oldest file and so on. Optionally, an additional prefix can be specified that will be put between the index number and the original filename.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-v
Prints version information
.TP
.I \-d
Specify which directory to process. Default is the current directory.
.TP
.I \-e
Only process files with given extension(s). Specify multiple extensions between quotes, eg. ".jpg .png".
.TP
.I \-\-start\-index
Specify the starting index number which is prepended to the oldest file.
.TP
.I \-\-prefix
Specify a prefix that is given to each file. The prefix is put after the index number.
.TP
.I \-\-no\-safety
Do not ask safety confirmation before altering the file names in the directory.
.SH EXAMPLE
.I  chronorder \-e .bar
.PP
If these are the original contents of the current directory (numbers behind file names represent chronological order):
.br
bar.bar (3)
.br
foo.foo (2)
.br
foo.bar (1)
.PP
Then the result of executing the command will be:
.br
1 foo.bar
.br
2 bar.bar
.br
foo.foo
.SH BUGS
The program does not recognize multiple extensions in a file name. This may become problematic if
an option is added that removes the original file name.
.SH AUTHOR
Pieter Brandwijk (pieter@pbrandwijk.com)
